NOTES FOR INTRODUCTION

AMSALLEM

While CFD-based aeroelastic computations have
accurately predicted the correct behavior of full aircraft in the subsonic, transonic
and supersonic regimes, the associated high computational cost has prevented these
methods to be integrated in routine analysis. This is even the case for flutter which
can be treated as a linearized problem, and therefore is less extensive to solve than
nonlinear problems

routine analysis and flutter clearance involve parameter varia-
tions and most if not all ROMs lack robustness with respect to parameter changes.
ivTherefore, performing computations with ROMs calls for reconstructing a new ROM
every time a new configuration is considered. However, such a reconstruction can be
a computationally intensive process since the high-fidelity model is involved.

ROMs and their corresponding reduced-order bases are
quantities that typically belong to nonlinear, matrix manifolds. As such, classical in-
terpolation methods fail, as they are not able to enforce the constraints characterizing
those manifolds

The proposed method enables test operation calls for
new, “last minute” flight configurations and thus paves the way for on-line, routine
usage of reduced-order modeling including during flight testing

prime interest

In order to tackle this CPU cost issue, Reduced-Order Modeling (ROM) methods
have seen a growing interest in the aeroelasticity community since the end of the 90s.
The high CPU burden associated with CFD-based techniques is indeed incurred by the
large number of degrees of freedom (DOFs) resulting from the spatial discretization
needed to accurately solve the underlying Partial Differential Equations (PDEs). As
smaller number of degrees of freedom are involved, ROMs are however capable ofThis
is obviously an important limitation on reduced-order modeling since, due to this
non-robustness, a ROM can only be useful at the point it has been built at
being operated in near real-time. For this reason, and because they can be sufficiently
accurate, ROMs are often sought-after for many applications pertaining to design [3],
design optimization [4], control [5] and dynamic data-driven systems [6, 7], among
others

Unfortunately, design optimization, control, data-driven systems and many other
applications typically involve parameter changes, and most if not all ROM technolo-
gies lack robustness with respect to parameter variations.

physical or modeling parameter

Reconstruct-
ing a ROM is however in many cases a computationally intensive proposition as it
requires generating solutions of the high-fidelity model, solving matrix equations or
computing eigenmodes of the high-fidelity operator. All these methods involve the
large-dimensional model and, as such, lead to expensive computations.

by-pass the expensive price
associated with the use of the high-fidelity model.

The ability of fast generation of ROMs for new values of parameters is also of
great interest to the design and optimization communities, where many-queries-based
methods are computationally demanding. As such, the scope of this thesis is not
limited to routine analysis.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BALLARIN

Several applications in physics or engineering need an efficient solution of parametrized partial
differential equations (PDEs); this necessitates the computation of the solution of (possibly
nonlinear) PDEs for several different “scenarios”

guarantee efficiency, accuracy and reliability also when using ROMs

POD was born to provide efficient model order reduction in turbulent viscous flow computa-
tions, with the aim of preserving the most important energetic flow features

The aim of this work is to use the RB framework in its state of the art formulation for the sta-
ble and accurate approximation of flows in a POD setting, in order to improve the performance
of this latter.

In the offline stage of the
resulting strategy, several Navier-Stokes truth solutions are computed, and a POD is performed
to extract a low dimensional representation of both velocity and pressure spaces

an online Galerkin projection over this enriched space can be performed online, in order to get a
reduced-order approximation of both velocity and pressure fields

algebraic formalism

The key requirement for an efficient ROM evaluation
is the capability to decouple the construction stage of the reduced-order space (offline) from
the parametric evaluation stage (online), thus featuring the so-called Offline/Online decompo-
sition. To meet this goal, we require that matrices and vectors appearing in (9)-(10) fulfil the
assumption of affine parametric dependence

when dealing with
more general nonaffine parametrizations, an approximate affine expansion is usually recovered
by means of the so-called empirical interpolation method (EIM)

ROMs for solving parametrized PDEs are usually based upon a suitable and stable combination of
“snapshot” FE solutions, thus aiming at building reduced spaces V N ⊂ V h , Q N ⊂ Q h of global
approximation functions, for velocity and pressure, respectively. At least two approaches in
the construction stage of the reduced basis can be pursued: greedy algorithms and Proper
Orthogonal Decomposition [1]. In this paper we consider this latter
 
drop out

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BUFFA

The reduced basis method is a discretization approach for the approximation of the solutions of parameter
dependent partial differential equations. Some solutions are assumed to be known (or at least very well approx-
imated by a classical discretization method) for certain, well chosen, parameters from a preliminary (offline)
step; these solutions constitute the basis of the reduced basis method. The solution for (a large number of) new
parameters is then approximated as a linear combination of the elements of this basis. Most often, this approxi-
mation is based on the variational equivalent formulation of the problem, the reduced basis approximation then
being defined through a Galerkin process. In previous works [3, 4] exponential convergence with respect to the
number N of basis functions is proved for a one-dimensional parameter case, and numerical experiments [7–9]
illustrate the same behavior (or even faster) even in situations where the dimension of the parameter space P
is larger. This is the case only when the elements of the basis – i.e. the parameters in the offline process –
are sufficiently well chosen. The offline selection of these parameters is critical and various methods have been
proposed for this purpose. These methods differ in their essence, in their efficiency both in the offline stage
and in the online stage, and in whether they rely on random arguments or deterministic frameworks such as
principal component analysis or greedy algorithms.

There is no reason why a reduced
basis approach should be a viable alternative to classical discretizations such as finite element, finite volume
or spectral methods in the most general case where the solutions do not depend smoothly with respect to the
parameter

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EFTANG

boundary conditions, material properties, geometrical factors or loads

For many engineering purposes, one is interested in the evaluation of certain
physical averages, or outputs of interest, defined as functionals of the solution
to a partial differential equation (PDE) that describes the underlying physical
problem.

may not be possible within the short space of time available

To find the optimal (in the “energy-norm” sense) linear combination, a standard Galerkin projection is used

Hence, if the expense of precomputing “truth approximations” to the snapshots
– to which a standard finite or spectral element method is employed – can be
justified, the reduced basis method may, given any μ ∈ D, drastically speed up
the evaluation of the corresponding output of interest, s(μ)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARIS

“output of interest” which is a functional of the field variable u e (μ)

discrete projection methods like finite element or spectral methods is simply too costly
in the many-query and real-time contexts often of interest in engineering. Low-order
models — we consider here reduced basis approximations — are increasingly popular in the 
engineering analysis, parameter estimation, design optimization, and control contexts.

Our own effort is dedicated to

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHEN

Even though the ability to computationally model complex phenomena continues to increase, it re-
mains challenging to many types of problems in optimization, design, control etc due to the need for
a high number of computations for various parameters. To address this problem, the development of
reduced-order method(ROM) [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] that enables the approximated solutions with an acceptable
loss of accuracy has gained a substantial interest as a compromise to solving the full problems. In reduced
order models, the full problem is expressed by projecting the full system to a problem of specific subspace
with much smaller degree of freedoms(DOFs). When properly chosen, this reduced linear space can
adequately represent the dynamics of the full system under parameter variation at substantially reduced
cost. Examples of some of these recent developments include proper orthogonal decomposition(POD)
[7, 8], Harmonic Balance approach(HB)[9], and Volterra theory[10, 11].

Although
Projection-based ROMs are effective, it brings much inconvenience to compute projection coefficients,
especially for complex nonlinear problems. Certainly this is not what we expect. To address this concern,
there is a recent interest in non-intrusive ROMs[14] which seeks to develop ROMs based solely on access
to snapshots. In other words, governing equations only play the role of providing snapshots and has
nothing to do with the projection process.

Apart from the desire to develop ROMs of a non-intrusive nature, it is likewise important to ensure
the accuracy of the reduced models by carefully selecting the snapshots. Due to the variation of possible
solutions, it is not possible to determine the optimal candidates to generate snapshots. One approach is
to use a random strategy such as Latin Hypercube sampling or minimum discrepancy sequences[22, 23],
CVT[24], Monte Carlo methods[25], Sparse Grid[26] etc to generate snapshots and manipulate these to
recover a suitable basis, e.g., by the use of a singular value decomposition(SVD). However, to guarantee the
accuracy of the reduced model, an excessive number of snapshots may be required, leading to unacceptable
computational cost

greedy algorithm in which case
the snapshots are adaptively determined by finding the location in the predetermined parameter space
at which the error estimator in the reduced model is maximum, quantifying the quality of the ROM

Based on an approach set forward in [21], we first develop the
non-intrusive ROM which employs a two-level approach for the construction of the spatial and temporal
basis functions and estimates the undetermined coefficients of the reduced model by using a radial basis
approximation(RBF)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HESTHAVEN

Models expressed as parametrized partial differential equations are ubiquitous
throughout engineering and the applied sciences as models for unsteady and steady
heat and mass transfer, acoustics, solid and fluid mechanics, electromagnetics or
problems of finance. In such models a number of input-parameters are used to char-
acterize a particular problem and possible variations in its geometric configuration,
physical properties, boundary conditions or source terms. The parametrized model
implicitly connects these input parameters to outputs of interest of the model, e.g.,
a maximum system temperature, an added mass coefficient, a crack stress intensity
factor, an effective constitutive property, a waveguide transmission loss, a channel
flowrate or a pressure drop, etc

we focus on problems in which the solution
is sought for a large number of different parameter values. Examples of typical
applications of relevance are optimization, control, design, uncertainty quantification,
real time query and others. It is not only the accuracy of the model that matters,
but the computational efficiency of the model is likewise critical.

As we shall see soon, it is not the goal of the reduced basis methods to replace the
expensive computational model but rather to build upon it. Indeed, the accuracy of
the reduced model will be measured directly against the precision of the expensive
computational model. This direct comparison against the expensive model that allows
us to verify the accuracy of the reduced model and, thus, certify the validity of the
predicted output. In other words, the goal is to pursue an algorithmic collaboration
rather than an algorithmic competition with the expensive direct solution method.

The central idea of the reduced basis approach is the identification of a suitable
problem-dependent basis to effectively represent parametrized solutions to partial
differential equations.

Substantial recent efforts have been devoted to the development of techniques
to formulate a posteriori error estimation procedures and rigorous error bounds for
outputs of interest [20]. These a posteriori error bounds subsequently allow for the
certification of the output of the reduced basis model for any parameter value.

However, the development of effective sampling strategies, in particular in the
case of many parameters [21–24], can also be aided by the error estimators. These
can play an important role in the development of efficient and effective sampling
procedures by utilizing inexpensive error bounds to explore much larger subsets of
the parameter domain in search of the most representative snapshots, and to determine
when the basis is sufficiently rich.

the POD approach, relying on the
identification of the suitable reduced model by a singular value decomposition of a
large number of snapshots, is often prohibitively expensive in the offline phase

Recent work has focused on achieving a full decoupling of the finite element
scheme and the reduced order model through an offline-online procedure. In this
approach, the complexity of the offline stage depends on the complexity of the finite
element approximation of the parametrized partial differential equation, while the
complexity of the online stage depends solely on the complexity of the reduced
order model. When combined with the a posteriori error estimation, the online stage
guarantees the accuracy of the high-fidelity finite element approximation at the low
cost of a reduced order model.

Reduced basis methods can be effectively applied also to nonlinear problems
[69–71], although this typically introduces both numerical and theoretical compli-
cations, and many questions remain open. For classical problems with a quadratic
nonlinearity, there has been substantial progress, e.g., Navier-Stokes/Boussinesq and
Burgers’ equations in fluid mechanics [19, 21, 23, 72–75] and nonlinear elasticity
in solid mechanics.

